
NFS makes remote file directories appear to be part of the local
directory system---remote files are accessed by end users and programs
as if they were local. NFS is built on top of a Remote Procedure Call.
RPC enables a client to call a subroutine that is executed at a remote
server. 
The RPC protocol specification introduced a method for dynamically finding
out what port a service is using. At each server host, a single RPC program,
called portmapper, acts at a clearinghouse for information about the ports
that other RPC programs use. The portmapper listens at well-known port 111.
when a client wants to access an RPC service, the client sends an RPC message
to the portmapper at port 111. The portmapper responds , giving the current
port for the service.

 A firewall is a system or group of systems that enforces an access control policy between two networks. The actual means by which this is accomplished varies widely, but in principle, the firewall can be thought of as a pair of mechanisms: one which exists to block traffic, and the other which exists to permit traffic. Some firewalls place a greater emphasis on blocking traffic, while others emphasize permitting traffic. Probably the most important thing to recognize about a firewall is that it implements an access control policy. 

Firewalls are the most important security tool used to handle network connections
between two organizations that do not trust each other. By placing a firewall on
each external network connection, an organization can define a secure perimeter
that prevents outsiders from interfering with the organization's computers. In
particular, by limiting access to a small set of computers, a firewall can 
prevent outsiders from probing all computers in an organization or flooding
the organization's networks with unwanted traffic.

Unlike broadcast transmission (which is used on some local area networks), multicast clients receive a stream of packets only if they have previously elect to do so (by joining the specific multicast group address). Membership of a group is dynamic and controlled by the receivers (in turn informed by the local client applications). The routers in a multicast network learn which sub-networks have active clients for each multicast group and attempt to minimise the transmission of packets across parts of the network for which there are no active clients.


   An IPv6 anycast address is an address that is assigned to more than
   one interface (typically belonging to different nodes), with the
   property that a packet sent to an anycast address is routed to the
   "nearest" interface having that address, according to the routing
   protocols' measure of distance.

Anycast addresses are taken from the unicast address space, and are not
syntactically distinguishable from unicast addresses.

IPv6 new features:
   address 128bit, anycast address, no broadcasting, multicasting mandatory;
   ipv6 header no checksum;
   ipv6 routers don't fragment packets that they forward Fragmentation with
        ipv6 is performed only by the originating host. When a packet is too
        long for a router to handle, the router sends an ICMP message to the
        source asking it to fragment the packet and resend it.


A source route is a list of IP addresses specified by the sender of the IP
datagram. If the source route is strict, then the datagram must pass through
each listed node and only the listed nodes. But if the source route is loose,
the datagram must pass through each listed node but can also pass through ohter
nodes that do not appear in the source route.

Dynamic Source Routing(DSR):
  DSR is a reactive protocol designed especially for use in multihop wireless
ad hoc networks of mobile nodes. DSR allows the network to be completely 
self-organizaing and self-configuring, without the need for any network
infrastructure and administration. It is composed of two mechanisms, route
discovery and route maintenance. 
   New features:
     1. no periodic advertisement of routing talbe;
     2. no update broadcast;
     3. on-demand protocol, routes only when asked for;
     4. not require bidrectional links;

 DSR Route discovery:
    When a node S originate a new packet destined for a node D, S will obtain
a source route to D. S first search its route cache, if no route for the 
destination is found, S will initiate the Route Discovery protocol to find a 
new route to D dynamically. S broadcasts a route request packet to it's 
immediate neighbors. Each route request packet contains the source address,
destination address, a unique request id generated by the source, a route 
record in which is accumulated a record of the sequence of hops taken by
the route request packet as it propogated through the ad hoc network.
    when any host receives the route request packet, it processes the packet 
according to the following steps:
   1. if it's seen this request before or the host already in the
      route record, drop it;
   2. if the host is the destination, then the route record in the packet 
      contains the route, return a copy of this route in a route reply packet
      to the source;
   3. if the host is not the target but knows a route to the destination, it
      can generate a route reply by concatenating the route in the route record
      with the route from itself to the destination;
   4. otherwise append this host's own address to the route record in the 
      route request packet and re-broadcast the reuest;
   
  In order to return a route reply:
    1. if the host generating the route reply packet has a route to the
       initiator , then use the route;
    2. reverse the route in the route record from the route request packet,
       use this route to send the route reply packet;
    3. piggyback the route reply packet on a route request targeted at the
       initiator of the route discovery packet.
   
  Additional features of DSR route Discovery:
    1. Caching overheard routing information;
    2. Replying to RREQ using Cached Routes;
    3. Preventing RREP storms:
       delaying RREP for a short period and listen to see if the initiating
       node will use a better route;
    4. RREQ hop limit;

 DSR Route Maintenance:
     While a route is in use, the route maintenance procedure monitors the
operation of the route and informs the sender of any routing errors. If the
packet is retransmitted by some hop the muximum number of times and no
ack is received, this node returns a Route Error message to the original 
sender of the packet, identifying the link over which the packet could not
be forwarded. If the Source has an alternative route to the destination then
it send the packet on this route. Otherwise, it may perform a new Route
Discovery.   

Nagle Algorithm:
  The sender avoid transmitting short segments by accumulating data for a
while before dispatching it. This is a very simple idea to reduce the
number of tiny datagrams presented to a network.

   ipv6 requires support for authentication and security options;

BGP confederation:

   BGP requires that all speakers within a single AS have a fully meshed set
of IBGP connections. This can be a scaling problem in networks containing a 
large number of IBGP peers. The use of BGP confederations addresses this problem.

  A BGP confederation creates a set of autonomous systems that represent a single
AS to peers external to the confederation. This removes the full mesh requirement
and reduces management complexity.


Traceroute:
  utilizes  the IP protocol `time to live' field
       and attempts to elicit an ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED response from
       each gateway along the path to some host.
 This program attempts to trace  the  route  an  IP  packet
       would  follow to some internet host by launching UDP probe
       packets with a small ttl (time to live) then listening for
       an  ICMP  "time  exceeded" reply from a gateway.  We start
       our probes with a ttl of one and increase by one until  we
       get  an  ICMP  "port  unreachable"  (which means we got to
       "host") or hit a max (which defaults to 30 hops &  can  be
       changed  with  the -m flag).  Three probes (change with -q
       flag) are sent at each ttl setting and a line  is  printed
       showing  the  ttl,  address  of the gateway and round trip
       time of each probe.  If the probe answers come  from  dif­
       ferent  gateways,  the  address  of each responding system
       will be printed. 




Early random drop:

   drop arriving packet with fixed drop probability if queue length 
exceeds threshold 
   can't control misbehaving users;

   Drop tail is simple, if the input queue is full incoming packets are
dropped. One major problem of drop tail is that by the time packets are
dropped, it is too late. The queue is already too long. Congestion has
already affected the system. The other problem with drop tail is that it
is not always fair between competing users. Proactive stategies take action
to prevent the congestion from occuring in the first place and are more
fair than drop tail in some cases.


For Tcp congestion algorithms, why have a multiplicative decrease
and additive increase(e.g. for window size)?

  The reason for a multiplicative decrease is that if you're loosing
packets you need to get control of the issue quickly or else you will end
up w/ a very serious bandwith problem, so thats why you drop the window by
1/2 or or more. by dropping it by a half, the router will have sufficient
time to reduce queue length, thus recover from congested state quickly.
  additive increase can probe for additional bandwidth that might become
  available. If you use multiplicative increase and multiplicative decrease,
  the congestion window will jump from w/2 and w again and again, not only
  don't utilize the available bandwidth but also waiste network resource due
  to retransmission of lost packets.



DSDV features:
  DSDV is a proactive routing protocol maintain routes between every host
pair at all times. Every mobile station maintains a routing table that lists
all available destinations, the number of hops to reach the destination and the
sequence number assigned by the destination node. To maintain the consistency
of route tables in a dynamically varying topology, each node periodically 
transmits updates to their immediate neighbors, doing so immediately when significant new information is available. 
   Newly recorded routes are scheduled for immediate advertisement to the
current Mobile host's neighbors. Routes which show an improved metric are
scheduled for advertisement at a time which depends on the average settling
time for routes to the particular destination under consideration, thus
damping fluctuations of the route tables. 


How the destination sequence number is used:
  Each route table entry is tagged with a sequence number that is originated
by the destination node. When a mobile node receives new routing information,
that information is compared to the information already available from previous
routing information packets. Any route with a more recent sequence number is used;
routes with older sequence number are discarded or stored as less preferable. 
A route with a sequence number equal to an existing route is chosen if it has a "better" metric. 



CGSRP:
  Clusterhead Gateway Switch Routing Protocol
  CGSRP uses as basis the DSDV Routing algorithm. The mobile nodes are 
aggregated into clusters and a cluster-head is elected. All nodes that 
are in the communication range of the cluster-head belong to its cluster.
A gateway node is a node that is in the communication range of two or more
cluster-heads. In a dynamic network cluster head scheme can cause 
performance degradation due to frequent cluster-head elections.
 CGSR uses a Least Cluster Change algorithm. In LCC, cluster-head change 
occurs only if a change in networks causes two cluster-heads to come into
one cluster or one of the nodes moves out of the range of all the cluster-heads.

CGSRP routing algorithm:
  The source of the packet transmits the packet to its cluster-head, then the
cluster-head send the packet to the gateway node that connects this cluster-head
and the next cluster-head along the route to destination.
cluster-head selection:
   the complexity and overhead of clustering rests in the selection
of the cluster head. There are two possible distributed clustering algorithms,
lowest-ID algorithm and highest-connectivity algorithm(most neighbors within 1
hop). The most important criterion is stability.

To my memory the answer was definately yes since w/ snmp you can make some 
major changes to a network using snmp. also i would assume that you could 
probally add some type of sniffing node on the network if you were not to have 
any security, i'm not a 100% sure on the last note, but it would seem logical 
that it would work. but the first thing i mentioned is the most important 
being that you can make some changes that pose a serious threat to the 
network.


SNMP network management framework consists of:
1. A large number of managed nodes, each with an SNMP entity(agent). An SNMP
   agent is a server at a managed host that responds to SNMP requests from 
   managers. An agent must be present at each IP host in order to enable 
   management of that host by a SNMP manager. The SNMP agent manages/supports
   the Management Information Base(MIB) on the IP host on which it resides.

2. At least one SNMP entity with management applications(manager). An SNMP 
   manager is an application that runs on a management station that typically
   requests management data from an SNMP agent using the SNMP protocol.

3. The management information database for each entity. MIBs are represented 
   using ASN.1 object identifier(abstract syntax notation)

4. A protocol to carry management information between the entities. The protocol
   that is used between an agent and the manager is SNMP.